= uOS Operating System for Embedded Applications =
uOS is a portable well-scalable operating system for embedded real-time
systems. uOS is free software ([license GPL with extension]) and intended
for commercial applications.

Project files could be downloaded [download_ru from here] (page in Russian, sorry).

Documentation is located [docs_ru here] (in Russian).

== Key features of uOS ==
  * Excellent hardware scalability: from 8-bit microcontrollers with 16 kilobytes ROM and 2 kilobytes RAM to weighty 32-bit microprocessors.
  * Low footprint and performance overhead: core runtime module requires only 2 kilobytes ROM and 200 bytes RAM.
  * Modular approach: set of involved modules (drivers, memory manager, network stacks) can be extended according to the specific field of application.
  * Nice portability. One of the latest job performed - porting to MIPS32 platform - took 1 man/month.

== Supported architectures ==
  * Atmel AVR.
  * ARM: Atmel AT91SAM7 and AT91SAM9, Samsung S3C4530A, Milandr 1986BE91. ARM, Thumb and Thumb2 modes.
  * MIPS32: Microchip PIC32, Elvees MC-24.
  * Texas Instruments MSP430.
  * Intel i386: PC-compatible computers with PCI bus and VESA video. Grub 0.97 is used.
  * Linux386: virtual machine, with TCP/IP support. Useful for debugging of platform-independent part of system being developed: data processing algorithms, memory management, networking protocols.

== uOS charaсteristics ==
  * Preemptive multitasking
  * Practically no limitation for number of tasks and priorities
  * Unified synchronization object "mutex", extended with message passing functionality
  * Hardware interrupts implemented as messages
  * Opportunity of using "fast" interrupt handling, without involving synchronization objects
  * Priority inheritance
  * Simplicity and extendability due to modular architecture
  * Stack overflow detection
  * Ready to use TCP/IP stack including Telnet and NNTP
  * SNMP module for application as embedded agent
  * Built-in Embedded TCL interpreter for applications requiring command line prompt
  * Free development tools (GCC) incliding MS Windows platform
  * Set of samples for every supported architecture
