=uOS Operating System for Embedded Applications=
uOS is a portable well-scalable operating system for embedded real-time systems. uOS is free software (GPL with extension) and intended for commercial applications.

==Key features of uOS:==
  * Excellent hardware scalability: from 8-bit microcontrollers with 16 kilobytes ROM and 2 kilobytes RAM to weighty 32-bit microprocessors.
  * Low size and performance overhead: core OS requires 2 kilobytes ROM and 200 bytes RAM.
  * Modular approach: set of involved modules (drivers, memory manager, network stacks) can be extended according to the specific field of application.
  * Nice portability. One of the latest job performed - porting to MIPS32 platform - took 1 man/month.
  * Infinite number of tasks, priorities and resources.

During development main emphasis was done on inner simplicity and effectiveness. The microkernel consist of approximately 1500 lines of code. Core algorithms are easy to read and support.

==Supported architectures:==
  * ARM: Samsung S3C4530A, ARM and Thumb modes.
  * MIPS32: Elvees MC-24.
  * Atmel AVR: ATmega128, ATmega2561, ATmega103, ATmega161.
  * Intel i386: PC-compatible computers with PCI bus and VESA video. Grub 0.97 is used.
  * over Linux Kernel API (i386 x 32), with TCP/IP support. Useful for debugging of platform-independent part of system being developed: data processing algorithms, memory management, networking protocols.

==uOS charaсteristics:==
  * Preemptive multitasking
  * Practically no limitation for number of tasks and priorities
  * Unified synchronization object "resource", analogue of mutex and mailbox, for tasks and interrupts
  * Priority inheritance
  * Opportunity of using "fast" interrupt handling, without involving synchronization objects
  * Simplicity and extendability due to modular architecture
  * Stack overflow detection
  * Ready to use TCP/IP stack including Telnet and NNTP
  * SNMP module for application as embedded agent
  * Built-in Embedded TCL interpreter for applications requiring command line prompt
  * Free development tools (GCC) incliding MS Windows platform
  * Set of samples for every supported architecture